>> [MUSIC]
>> Joe Nelson: Next one is we separated
from the environment we separated mutation
from calculation.
We can even separate a function from rules
and it's useful to think about this.
I mean ultimately the functions we write
are defined by rules in programming.
But if we step back and think of them
not as the rules inside of them all
things it does but just here's a thing.
It's just passing things through and
it sends this point to this point.
So thinking of it more like a noun
you can hold them in your hands.
Just like you can add numbers you
can do things to functions the nouns
they're not just there to doing I guess In
English there's run and there's running.
You got a Jaren.
But this is the Jaren way of
thinking about a function.
So functions are nouns.
So one way we could
think about a function.
This is a part of MV5 in JavaScript.
Is here's what it is.
It does this stuff and
there is these weird variables.
And numbers and stuff.
Or you could think someone's
brought a huge platter to you.
Of all the finite strings that
must be a big platter and
associate with each string just
this tag of what MD5's do.
The function is just the platter
of all the things that it does.
So when we think about
it what it does in side,
the way it operates is thinking
intentionally otherwise extensionally.
So if we think about extensionally, we
can now make operations on functions and
reason about what they do without caring
as much, what's happening inside.
Just to keep it kind of mathy,
in case all this is kind of boring,
if you don't know this bit but I wanted
to say that, it's a set theoretically.
A function is a single
value collection of pairs.
So, I said there's a platter and
there's a bunch of strings and
a little tag on each string
that says here's my MD-5.
That's the pairing going on.
So if you had a function
that goes like this.
The one on the left is a function,
I don't know everything,
well I guess assuming it's
good in the dot dot dots.
That's the part that we showed
is not making it not a function.
But the bit on the right is certainly
not a function when you relate.
So when you relate 1 in D.
We're cool.
That would mean relating them means you
could think it's drawn diagrammatically as
one goes over to D.
I relate 2 in B we're cool
that I relate 2 in C.
But we're not cool because two is already
taken you need to be able to decide
where it goes but as a set it
just means it's single value that
the paired the first component of the pair
can never have two things that go with it.
So thinking in terms of these
diagrams now that's I guess what.
So there's another terminology
if you're not familiar with it.
When we're looking at wait for the slide
when we're looking at the numbers,
all the numbers or values of any
kind that you see in the pairs
on the left hand side
is called the domain.
And all the ones on the right hand side is
the range of the co-domain depending on
the range could be bigger.
So without ever just knowing those words,
domain is the things that are eligible to
be put into the function and the range
are the things that it'll ever give you.
Like some functions, squaring a number
will never give you a negative number.
It's just not possible.
So that's not in the range.
>> Joe Nelson: Knowing that
let's pull it back into JS.
It was cool thinking about it
mathematically it's a nice place to be,
little quiet but this functions in
math we're taking one value and
giving one value.
But that's a pain.
I have functions that take
a couple in programming.
There's a technique where we can
separate the arity from the function.
So that we can write functions
that take a lot of things but
only give them arguments one at a time.
And this thing knows how to deal with it.
Here's one argument,
you take three and they'll say,
okay I'm waiting when you give
me the next ones, I'm good.
You can just remember that.
Before getting into how that happens,
let's see one way that
separating can remove names.
Cuz we're saying,
once we separate to recognize,
we're removing spurious names
that don't have to be there.
So the arcs here's a thing that works
with some objects at the top we have
this function it's gonna help us out.
Real simple you give it a property name,
and an object and
just looks it up in the object
it's like using dot.
But when we write it.
We make a function for as opposed to using
a language construct, you know it's funny
you know you think I wanna language
if it let's me do a lot of things.
This is great look at all
the stuff it gives me.
But when you do with the language
you're not able to talk about it.
You're not able to compose it together.
So it's, cool, language does it.
But then not cool that we
can control how it happens.
So, when the language gives me dot,
I can't do what you're about to
see at the bottom of the page.
When I have a function called get,
we can use it.
So assume we have this get thing,
it gets a property out of an object.
And assume we just have a list of people.
I guess it came back from some API or
something.
It's JSON it's an array of
objects that have a name and
I make a function called get person name.
I give a person and it just I mean
super basic and opposed the name out.
So then if we had a bunch of people
on our task was to get their names.
We would map this function getpersonName
over people and we'd have their names.
Another way is if we had magic and
that's more fun.
So the magic.
Okay we have get,
we gotta put two pieces together.
At the top we have get,
takes two arguments.
It takes the property, an object and
down here I'm getting those
names again through the array.
Just by saying map over the people and
get name, but you're like wait wait.
Get takes two we just gave it one how's
this happening well that's magic.
The second one is of course
map will go over and for
each person it'll send it into this
thing this Frankenstein function.
Which is Get,
it's a weird little copy of Get,
that knows the name is baked into it but
it's waiting for the object.
So if we did, If we had this kind of
magic and if we think about it that way,
we don't have to write a function
called Get person's name.
It's shorter you just say Get name.
And in fact there's a little trick
about the order I put that in.
I say get property object,
I didn't say get object property.
Because if I said get object property,
I couldn't bake in the name
because the first thing it's looking for
is the object.
And oftentimes when we're mapping we
don't know what the objects are gonna be.
So depending on the order of the arguments
It's going to work better with this
magical technique called currying.
That's gonna allow us to put
things in one at a time.
And in fact Brian had a popular talk
about underscore, you're doing it wrong.
And it is very much,
because people don't use this style
thinking about functions as little nouns.
And being able to compose them and
do stuff to them and curry them most
JavaScript libraries the things are in the
wrong order so you can't do this stuff.
So there's a set of libraries that we're
gonna show you that are gonna work
better for this.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: There's a question from
Ballentine in chat.
Would ES6 splat operator affect
in anyway the arity approach or
magic on functions?
>> Joe Nelson: We're gonna look into
one implementation of currying.
And we'll see whether this implementation
I'll show you is affected.
I can't think off the top
whether it would or wouldn't but
when you see the example implementation.
You have a feeling about it, Brian?
>> Brian: Yeah, I can say,
I mean there's multiple
implementations and
already this one creates
unnecessary closures.
And functions take property so you can
actually bake the arguments into the or
return a new function.
Which would get rid of the closure.
So yeah there's a bunch of different
implementations you could do for but
it's good for the naive simple approach
right now and try to make it better
[LAUGH] with everybody's help.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay so
we talked about the magic.
Boy.
I said magical spells were nice you know
that they're always a little bit garbled
and the question for me is whether
the curry what's more complicated
here this crazy thing or curry?
And the fact that it looks so
complicated is really just an artifact
that we're working in JavaScript.
Other languages like Haskel,
cough cough, is like just does it.
You know you don't have to think about it.
But here, it's all right.
We can do it.
I'll just go over this really quickly and
we can think about how this
one is implemented and
like Brian said there may be other
approaches that aren't as unwieldy.
But, I don't know this one seems kinda
bulletproof in some ways, so okay,
cool curry what's it doing.
It's taking a function and
ultimately what's it returning?
Well is really two things it could be
doing line three, well it's returning
another function on line two so you give
it a function it gives another function.
Like a stunt double or something.
It's this other function that's gonna, as
needed pretend to be your first one, but
also kind of remember things for it.
So in one case here's a function.
What does it do?
It checks to see whether
the arguments given to it are more or
less than what the original
function expected.
So it's kind of messed up in JavaScript
you get messed up is cool in this case you
could ask how many arguments was
the function declared to accept.
Of course in JavaScript you have another
pseudo array called arguments and
you could take more.
But if you least if you at least
declare your function is taking two
they'll be a .length on it and I'll say
well I guess I stated that I take two.
So this thing says I'm a new
function if I was given
fewer arguments than the original
function given to me like wanted.
I'm gonna keep note of what was given
to me and then return another function
which is sorta me but
just waiting for the next ones.
If you're given everything,
that you ever needed that the original
ever needed It says well.
Just pass it along I've no idea what
the original did, go to the original.
So it's just that way of
delaying what happens as needed.
Okay, so you feel pretty happy or
at least got a feel for it.
We're gonna use it.
So, even if you don't get in
the nuances of how it was written.
You see how it's used, it's easy.
So easy that we're going to go to our
next thing but before we do let's see
I wanted to say right right
just to read just to reiterate.
So we had our get thing right in
our this the same get function
we had before on the top you give it
a property you give it an object but
instead of saying function
get take the stuff.
You say get, you're the curried form
of the function what you used to be,
basically, all the stuff inside.
And when you say curry around it,
that's gonna return you a new function and
you're good.
You can use it in the magical way.
So you can say, names equals people,
oops, people get name.
You just gave it one thing,
and it's going to take two.